=head1 NAME

jgrep - grep-like utility written in Java

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<jgrep> I<[OPTIONS]> B<PATTERN> I<[FILES...]>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<jgrep> searches for I<PATTERN> in each I<FILE> or standard
input. I<PATTERN> is, by default, a Java regular expression
(java.lang.regex).

When FILE is -, read standard input.  With no FILE, read . if a
command-line -r is given, - otherwise.  If fewer than two FILEs are given,
assume -h. Exit status is 0 if any line is selected, 1 otherwise; if any
error occurs and -q is not given, the exit status is 2.

=head1 OPTIONS

=head2 Regexp selection and interpretation

=over 6

=item B<-E>,B<--extended-regexp>

Ignored.

=item B<-F>,B<--fixed-strings>

Interpret pattern as a set of fixed strings.

=item B<-G>,B<--basic-regexp>

Ignored.

=item B<-P>,B<--perl-regexp>

Ignored.

=item B<-2>

Same as '--re-engine re2j'.

=item B<--re-engine> I<ENGINE>

Specify a RE engine. ENGINE is either 'java'
(java.util.regex) or 're2j' (com.google.re2j).
The default is 'java'.

=item B<-e>,B<--regexp> I<PATTERN>

Specify a pattern used during the search of
the input: an input line is selected if it
matches any of the specified patterns. This
option is most useful when multiple -e options
are used to specify multiple patterns, or when
a pattern begins with a dash ('-').

=item B<-f>,B<--file> I<FILE>

Obtain PATTERN from FILE.

=item B<-i>,B<--ignore-case>

Perform case insensitive matching. By default,
B<jgrep> is case sensitive.

=item B<-w>,B<--word-regexp>

Force PATTERN to match only whole words.

=item B<-x>,B<--line-regexp>

Only input lines selected against an entire
fixed string or regular expression are
considered to be matching lines.

=back

=head2 Miscellaneous:

=over

=item B<-s>,B<--no-messages>

Suppress error messages

=item B<-v>,B<--invert-match>

Selected lines are those not matching any of
the specified patterns.

=item B<-V>,B<--version>

Display version information and exit.

=item B<--help>

Display this help text and exit.

=back

=head2 Output control:

=over

=item B<-m>,B<--max-count> I<NUM>

Stop after NUM matches.

=item B<-n>,B<--line-number>

Each output line is preceded by its relative
line number in the file, starting at line 1.
The line number counter is reset for each file
processed. This option is ignored if -c, -L,
-l, or -q is specified.


=item B<--line-buffered>

Flush output on every line.

=item B<-H>,B<--with-filename>

Print the file name for each match.

=item B<-h>,B<--no-filename>

Never print filename headers (i.e. filenames)
with output lines.

=item B<--label> I<LABEL>

Use LABEL as the standard input file name prefix.

=item B<-o>,B<--only-matching>

Print each match, but only the match, not the entire line.

=item B<-O>,B<--output-format> I<FORMAT>

Same as -o but FORMAT specifies the output
format. \N means group number N, \\ means \.
All other characters are output as is.

=item B<--marker-start> I<MARKER>

Marker for the beginning of matched substring.

=item B<--marker-end> I<MARKER>

Marker for the end of matched substring.

=item B<-q>,B<--quiet>

Quiet. Nothing shall be written to the
standard output, regardless of matching lines.
Exit with zero status if an input line is selected.

=item B<--silent>

Same as B<--quiet>.

=item B<-8>

Match the whole file content at once.

=item B<-r>,B<--recursive>

Recursively search subdirectories listed.

=item B<--include> I<FILE_PATTERN>

Search only files that match FILE_PATTERN pattern.

=item B<--exclude> I<FILE_PATTERN>

Skip files matching FILE_PATTERN.

=item B<-L>,B<--files-without-match>

Only the names of files not containing
selected lines are written to standard output.
Pathnames are listed once per file searched.
If the standard input is searched, the string
"(standard input)" is written.

=item B<-l>,B<--files-with-matches>

Only the names of files containing selected
lines are written to standard output. grep
will only search a file until a match has been
found, making searches potentially less
expensive. Pathnames are listed once per file
searched. If the standard input is searched,
the string "(standard input)" is written.

=item B<-c>,B<--count>

Only a count of selected lines is written to
standard output.

=back

=head2 Context control:

=over

=item B<-B>,B<--before-context> I<NUM>

Print NUM lines of leading context.

=item B<-A>,B<--after-context> I<NUM>

Print NUM lines of trailing context.

=item B<-C>,B<--context> I<NUM>

Print NUM lines of output context.

=item B<--color> I<WHEN>

Use markers to highlight the matching strings;
WHEN is 'always' or 'never'.

=item B<--colour> I<WHEN>

Same as B<--color>.

=back

=head1 EXTENSIONS OVER GNU GREP

Options B<-O>, B<-8>, B<--re-engine> and B<-2>

=head1 REGULAR EXPRESSIONS

L<https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/util/regex/Pattern.html>

=head1 EXIT STATUS

The exit status is 0 if selected lines are found, and 1 if not found.
If an error occurred the exit status is 2.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

=over 6

=item I<JGREP_COLOR>

This variable specifies the color used to highlight matched
(non-empty) text.  It can only specify the color used to highlight the
matching non-empty text in any matching line (a selected line when the
-v command-line option is omitted, or a context line when -v is
specified).

=item I<JGREP_JAVA>

Path to java. By default 'java'.

=item I<JGREP_JAVA_OPTS>

Options passed to java(1).

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2016 Aleksey Cheusov <vle@gmx.net>

=head1 HOME

L<https://github.com/cheusov/jgrep>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<grep(1)>
